I saw them in a room I saw the bearded
man the same type Albert nice aw
dirty bearded men in a room
I wash mine every day hey guys welcome
back to another breakdown of Twin Peaks
the return Greg and Ryan here now don't
forget to subscribe to our channel cuz
we have plenty more TV coverage so long
what yeah we've got preacher and Game of
Thrones all right we got a lot to talk
about so let's just jump right into it
what I love is last week's episode is a
lot about women stuck in this world of
man and just torture and violence and in
this one it's just a pure on horror film
so many callbacks that zombies
it's got zombie even had some bees
before yeah you got even the shiny and
you got all these things in it I thought
it was so cool I also thought though it
was super Twin Peaks like really dense
with the with the things that make the
show feel like Twin Peaks and some of I
feel like was almost the ultimate Twin
Peaks episode this week and what is
crazy is that it felt that way without
any horns and no mr. C yes no mr. C no
Bob Ennis and Gator episode so a feat
even though he is his presence is felt
in this episode I will say that much no
question alright we're going to hop into
the plot and then hit up some Easter
eggs in series and then go to your
comments but first a quick shout out to
Daniel de freitas who last week left the
comment on YouTube Miriam was still
reading so not yet murdered alright I
mean called it yeah I called it the very
first thing that happens in this episode
I wanted to just hit that right away
because it doesn't quite relate to
anything else that we're going to talk
about but Miriam crawling out of the
bushes all bloody she's alive these guys
man Richard and Chad I think they are
just scrolling things up left and right
I mean we talked about this before
bumbling criminals are Lynch's sing
remember he busted the window into the
trailer so that gas wasn't going to
explode anymore it was not going to blow
up first let's go down and check out our
FBI down in Buckman there's a lot going
on there Phil Hastings leads our
intrepid team out to the coordinates and
what do we get so this is out where Ruth
and Bill Hastings met the major
the places the fenced off rundown Shack
surrounded by shipping containers and I
also think may be off to the side
possibly a convenience store before
anything even happens though they see a
woodsman which confirms that when
Hastings said there were so many people
there he was talking about the woodsman
there was so many people there then
things get nutty pretty fast agent :
Albert approached the shack here coal
and coal alone witnesses of vortex where
he sees the woodsman in the other place
and we're going to go deeper on that a
little bit later Patrick just when it
seems like the vortex is about to
swallow call Albert intervenes and save
them now I have gone on record saying
that I am concerned about Albert not
being a good guy anymore I've said it in
previous videos I did a whole rant on
Twitter last week about it and he does
appear to save coal here but I think an
argument could also be made that he
prevented coal from seeing the truth
yeah it's you I think you could see it
that way
okay I'm going to join you in this too I
feel like maybe there is something going
on with Albert I'm not sure what that is
yet someone in the FBI is doing
something fishy here right either it's
Tammy Albert but also you have Diane who
we know is doing something out of the
ordinary yeah we know something's going
on with Diane my suspicion is that
Albert is in with Phillip Jeffries yes
and I think Diane may be too and in
fairness we don't really can't really
classify Jeffries as good or bad at this
moment you know an actor or a force but
not if all we know is even Bob is
working for a bill Jefferies right so we
don't know what the hell you doing
exactly but I do love one thing about
that whole entire scene is David Lynch
as we've seen this in the home drive a
lot he toys with our expectations and
what we anticipate is gonna happen next
and that scene with Albert my heart was
racing just when you see Cole go forward
and just Albert in the shot with his gun
and I'm thinking oh no this is a setup
but Woodsman are around surrounding them
I'm thinking okay he's going to shoot
them and the woodsmen are going to kill
everybody and then Bob is going to come
out and high-five Albert and then I'm
going to cancel my Showtime subscription
from there oh that would have been the
worst like the blocking of the scene the
way everyone is standing at Oscar and
how little we really know about everyone
it did feel that way my heart was racing
throughout the entire day yeah quick
sidenote to the sound of that vortex is
very similar to the vortex dot wave
sound file on bills website side note to
the side note the guestbook comments on
the search for the zone comm are now
gone and so are the coordinates on the
home page I'm not sure if that really
means anything that the guestbook got
wiped although there were like comments
from Bill Hastings and I'm really not
sure if it means anything that the
coordinates disappeared probably because
a bunch of fools went out I edited it
and decided to I mean I'm sorry very
committed investigators went out to see
what was up with those coordinates but
you know what we also lose from that is
that those coordinates when you clicked
on them took you to a video about the
convenience or of the convenience store
which we saw in part 8 and so that lines
up with in the episode how we see the
woodsman and possibly the communion sir
oh I guess we found out we sure did
Albert okay so back to Buckhorn net :
Albert finally find the remaining body
of Ruth Davenport and bill Hastings head
blows oh my god again it looks just like
Sammy Tracy's head when there's gone off
by mother or whatever they write to us
which actually kind of does connect them
even more I mean we know that they're
connected but like the the aesthetic of
murder is the same
kind of like that age dad there's a
scene later on at the police department
that really doesn't shed much light on
the story we do see the cold hands are
shaking and maybe that's the sign of
something bad but it also could be
nerves it wasn't as what Hansel I didn't
really go too much into it just yet yeah
I don't want to read too much into it
either but if his hand starts telling
him that it's not his hand then we'll
definitely know now we do see Albert
getting a read on Diane as she reads the
coordinates of the photo of Ruth's arm
Diane also admits to seeing a woodsman
leave the police car
Natalie and Preston say they didn't see
anything so there's also something there
to do with Albert Cole and Diane's
ability to see the Woodman I was in the
car I didn't see anybody
I well I I said I wasn't sure
although you're thinking maybe they just
weren't looking in the right direction I
don't think I saw the best footage shows
it themselves but they don't see
anything they're looking out in
different directions also against
expectations so in that scene were
Albert's showing the coordinates off and
Diane's reading them off to herself
she's trying to memorize it and then she
asks like you like smoke in here
immediately you think yourself oh she's
going to try to go smoke outside and go
text those cords and off and goals gonna
like Nicole and Albert are gonna find
her out right in there nope nope I think
maybe even she realized that that was
going to be two others all right now
let's go back to Twin Peaks and that
crazy math that talk shows Truman that
looks like they just made it if that day
on set but it's in Peaks so who cares
it's awesome right so Hawk has a map
that is a is always current he says
looks like it's from his from his tribe
maybe the Nez Perce okay goddess say not
an expert here but God to say that there
was probably a time about 25 years ago
when it would have been good to bust
that map out before but in fairness and
we talked about this last week
Hawks trust us trust issues
weren't really spoken about but a little
bit more apparent I think from
Margaret's nudging him and we talked
about that last week and here is the
sign of him opening up more back to
Hawkes map he believes that the major is
leading them to the blue pine mountain a
revered sacred site there's a symbol of
fire which Hawk clarifies like
modern-day electricity like modern-day
electricity good depends depends upon
the intention the intention behind the
higher pop goes on to explain that the
date the time capsule to correspond to
the stars on the map which point to
black corn diseased unnatural in a
symbol of death combining the two
creates black fire obviously yeah I mean
that's that's what I would have that's
what I would thought from there Truman
becomes fixated on our favorite symbol
to debase all season long which appears
over the mountains as it did on break
this note and in what happens to be the
most frustrating tease all season talk
only says you don't ever want to know
about that god dammit hawk you've got
damn clot withholding motherf and then
next comes the actual phone call from
Margaret where we get for the second
week in the row the sort of title of the
episode from market hot this fire where
you are going okay Margaret
now more in Twin Peaks we also have
actually played a lot with with Becky
Shelley Bobbie and Carlton we stained
when Peaks for a very good majority
episode I love it
yeah for a season that kind of has shied
away from like really twin teasing it
even this one goes there in the case of
Becky we finally get greater insight
into her character we learned that she
and Steven are actually married yuck
yeah and he's cheating on her with
Donna's all grown up little sister never
remember from seasons he would cook
cakes right also though alicia witt was
her first film role was in dune as the
sister of Paul Atreides played by none
other than hello and finally we get full
confirmation basically that Becky is the
daughter of Bobby breaks yeah there's an
awesome scene at the Double R diner with
all three of them we're in keeping with
the show's theme of violence and abuse
she apologizes for Steve's behavior the
Fenton tour parents that's very much and
feel the same things of Kelly in the
past and she takes that almost like you
can see the internal monologue like she
says at first she wants to get away from
him and then quickly interject and I
love seconds turns around and apologizes
for his behavior don't want to go out on
a limb and defend the violence towards
women that has been rampant through this
series but this is at least a moment of
I think clinch justifying a specific
incident so that it can explain itself
through the type of psychology that
takes place further demonstrating that
Becky is her mother's daughter we also
find out that Shelley is seeing red oh
man it's for that scene there's a this
beautiful moment of like a family that's
been separated is like sort of coming
together and then right in that moment
he the smile comes over
her face and there's red and then she
jumps out and goes to get a quick smooch
okay so this seemed very suddenly
dovetails into a shooting incident where
a family of rural Americans accidentally
discharges a gun in their car here I
think Lynch continues to play with
parent to child dynamics and the boy and
his father wearing a camouflage he
points his American deconstruction
directly at firearm carelessness between
this moment and the moment earlier when
Becky shoots up the apartment door the
capper on the scene involves an upset
motorist in the car immediately behind
the car where the shooting incident
happened with this panic woman who
possibly has a zombie daughter in the
passenger seat I love it it's still
fixing with twin peaks' that whole scene
very much feels like a 20 scene if you
were to put that in season two I would
not judge it one bit right and are we
you know are we maybe seeing the natural
progression of the rash or is this just
like symptomatic of how Twin Peaks has
just got health problems maybe on a
lighter note we get a beautiful sequence
where Carl rod swoops in to Shelly's
rescue and calls his VW van with a magic
whistle now inside the van he's got a
whole set up with an ashtray a CB radio
when Shelly's cell phone doesn't work
he's able to call in the incident
directly to the Twin Peaks PD a side
note to that David Lynch has gone on
record with his disdain for cellphones
it's just such a sadness
you think you've seen a film on your
[ __ ] telephone get real and now
slowly becoming my favorite part of
every week that he does yep it's time
for the weekly check in with dougie many
people have long predicted that dougie
needed just one good bite of pie to turn
him back in the Dale alas that did not
happen now we're down to only a few more
triggers that could cause this to happen
maybe his shoes it's not going to happen
that way but I did notice one thing when
he eats the pie he like eagle something
changes something switches and he has a
moment where he's I think until so like
wait something's up so I do feel like
something's gonna trigger him to come
back it won't be just one thing I don't
know I'm sorry I'm tired of having this
conversation every week me and everybody
don't everybody keeps having it what's
good to be the trigger Oh
every night I thought it was the toffee
then we thought oh maybe if it's not the
coffee it so bad either the badge or the
pie we're all we all have one I had one
too we all thought there was gonna be
something that triggered it it could be
the giant just going to a minute sleep
communicate about fur at this point in
complete fairness to everybody who is
invested in these theories I think that
you know Dougie still has not met
anybody that he knew in his previous
life in person or seen any you know so I
think what we can do at this point is
just rule out the sensory triggers the
things that we thought would remind Dale
you know the the coffee the pie the
violent incident with Ike the spike all
seems like possible things and none of
them none of them did it
so we are down to could a person do it
and then the other thing which is
actually already more or less been
prophesied by the show is the there's
going to be some kind of showdown with
mr. C one of them has to die we already
know that and I mean honestly maybe mr.
Cooper is the only way we get dougie
back Kadri okay so back to the dougie
plotline first off and I'll say at this
point somewhat unsurprisingly another
one of Duncan Todd's overcomplicate
plans has completely failed the plan to
frame dougie was foiled by none other
than Bushnell Mullins who arranged to
somehow make the mitchum insurance claim
totally legit rewarding them with 30
million dollars okay and that's actually
not the full narrative Bradley Mitchum
had a dream dreamt about killing that
Douglas Jones [ __ ] the dream got him so
fired up to kill dougie he couldn't wait
but what he wasn't prepared for was the
dream coming true and when Dougie
appears with a mysterious box Mitchum
realizes he can't kill dougie so here's
a big question
we know Phillip Gerard somehow coax Doug
into bringing that pie although we never
see what must have been a strained
customer service experience but did he
also plant Bradley mentions dream the
night before I mean anything's up we
haven't precisely seen Mike's powers
reach beyond communicating with dougie
but that ain't no coincidence regardless
of all that dougie now has an ally in
the Mitchell brothers they know that
they were deceived by Anthony Sinclair
and we know Sinclair was sent by Duncan
Todd at the order of mr. Cooper and that
pretty much wraps up the plot of the
episode on that last scene with the
Mitchell brothers I thought it was
actually kind of Sweden beautiful we get
the woman back who called him mr.
jackpots in the first place it's
gorgeous and a lot of callbacks just the
red or a lower Palmer getting the kiss
it's really cool and also her the old
lady her dress looks a lot like
seniorita titles dress - oh no that's a
good on everything hate something else I
thought - was a heartbreaking which is
namely the Badalamenti piece that was in
that scene when it turns into the slow
part right before the woman shows up it
just for a moment tons a little bit like
the slow piano bit in la-la-land
and that it's not necessarily a
reference but it just caught my ear but
I think what we've got a really way more
legit
references in easter egg coming right up
here oh we got so many let's just go
right into it let's do it alright like I
said earlier this episode felt like a
horror film and leave for half of the
film straight up the music everything
the wings oh yeah like Friday the 13th
the scene with the mitchum brothers so
they're holding their heads together now
I feel like that a painting that David
Lynch is jocking there I just can't
figure out which one if anybody knows
what it is let me know in the comment
section below but when I got that scene
was basically a mix of seven and the
Seventh Seal oh yeah
bird instead of seal and then you had
the two cars the black and white the
duality they have this man's light in
their hands right now
there's also you got the Exorcist
x-files through detective Tales from the
Crypt there are so many guys if you saw
any more references in there let me know
in the comment section below because I
think I just find that so cool yeah okay
now remember that scene with the zombie
girl in the car that is a callback to
Ronit Polanski in season 2 where she
wakes up from her coma and has a vision
of Bob totally okay so now one of my
favorites was if you went in there and
paused it and look really closely at the
woodsman on the stairs right in between
the two guys at the top of the stairs
there's this like just wallpaper there's
like a yes there's some color there
there's some spotty color and and it
really stands out when you freeze the
frame like everything else is black and
white now apparently but I think the
wood mare on the stairs that leads to
the room the mrs. Tremont showed Laura
in reality in a big dream that shows the
room leading to the Red Room Laura's
past specifically though went to the Red
Room right yeah this is where she
actually gets the okay ring that's the
scene where she gets the ring but we
also get Dale telling her
don't take the ring Marat Bradley
Mitchum's dream it's a direct call back
to the Winkies diner scene dreams
Queens lots of dreams all dreams he's
linking us david lynch's giving us
little clues here that something's going
on here with dreams i'm wake up ok so
you got the screaming room in the car
and she's yelling up all this stuff late
for dinner
the with their uncle or something like
that
yes uncle that makes me think fire walk
with me when Chet and Sam are talking in
the car after they just deciphered the
clues from lil Cole said lil was his
mother's sister's girl now what's
missing in that sense the uncle it's
loose but there's something there that's
the only other time I can think of that
we've used the word uncle like this and
how much like a hat with it I don't know
it's loose but yeah we play it loose all
right the last sort of Easter egg this
week you caught it I wasn't even paying
attention the Z is very prominent in the
coffee shop name this isn't the first
time you've seen that we've seen that
all the way back in the first episode
right Z on the cup uh-huh for the
longest time I just thought like those
are like numbers like order numbers or
something oh you're number seven or
whatever notice that it's like the shop
logo yeah might even be the same chain I
brought us two lattes again okay so now
let's go to some viewer comments from
last episode and over the week
Kelly Harman on YouTube says it looks
like Diane's nails are painted the same
color theme as the Black Lodge and her
spirit fingernail is painted red you
know what that's a great observation
black and white nails red finger nail
decals and and this definitely maybe
even solidifies a connection between mr.
Cooper and Diane
I don't know about that you don't want
to hear Scott I won in the youtube
comment says what do you make of the
fact that nerium's last name in the
credits is Sullivan
get the envelope stolen by chad has a
return address for Miriam Hodges yeah
that's a thing it's probably not a
continuity error which has been posited
but I also think it would be weird for
that kind of a mistake to be made and
you know it's also just possible that
Chad's not very good at what he does
he picked the wrong envelope maybe I was
love it if he just picked the wrong
envelope he's just a dummy and got the
little things I would be the funniest
outcome and consistent yeah and then on
Twitter deal Martin posted a sort of
trying to decipher Gordon Cole's drawing
from last week and actually I thought
this was pretty good you get you get
this sort of like trees in the frame
around the entrance to the Black Lodge
which sort of mirror the antlers and
then of course there's Bob's arm
reaching out of the Black Lodge I can
see yoga re in the youtube comment says
something that was missed is that Lynch
wrote the ending song for part 10 I
think that this with the dress and the
connection of Mulholland Drive means
that the lyrics of no stars are more
meaningful to the story Hawk again he
brought up the stars the mass right into
the certain date so it does tie into the
story a bit and also kind of cool that
that was a David Lynch song and remember
next episode let's rock Oh
let's rock is coming it could be just
the whole episode at the Roadhouse
horses to pull on just they say every
song for the soundtrack just an hour or
musical program I could see that
although I'm personally hoping that
we're going to see Chester Desmond I
think we're going to see somebody I
think we're going to get a reveal from
somebody but also we're going to get a
depth for somebody to I think more bad
[ __ ] is about to go down it is very next
it's time for a fatality I nominate
Carrie's foot and I'm 1/8 Chad oh thanks
again everybody for watching we'll see
you next week and
always make sure it has up in the
comment section if we missed anything
yeah and you can hit us on Twitter too
our handles are done in the description
alright guys see you next week let's
rock